DOCS/CASMNET-1534 - Improve linking of CSM install and upgrade to information mgmt. net and bi-can docs (#1671)
Cray-HPE/docs-csm: operations/network/management_network/bican_technical_details.md

- CSI for network generation and initial configuration.
- NCN images to support additional **subnets and routing.**
- CFS configurations for CN and UAN **addressing and routing.**
- UAI to support changes to **addressing and routing.**
- MetalLB to create new API endpoints and peer with edge router.
- Arista switch pair to create a new BGP routing instance, and add or modify existing virtual routing instance for path and access control.
- HSN required for transport of application traffic, so new procedures need to be developed for troubleshooting and support.

#### 2.4.2 When addressing occurs

- Installation, as part of CSI data.

#### 2.4.3 Ability to change post-install

- No

### 2.5 Traffic separation and routing

In CSM 1.2, there is Layer 3 separation internal to the system but co-mingled Layer 2 between the CHN IPv4 addressing and the internal HSN private IPv4 addresses.
Isolation will be within the Slingshot network as well as separated at the edge router.

#### 2.5.1 Touchpoints: effects and changes

- Edge router provides all **routing and access controls** in CSM 1.2 (via a virtual routing instance, if Arista switch pair is used).

> As noted earlier, non-Arista router configurations are out of scope for CSM 1.2.

Reviewer: Another use of "out of scope"

        2. [When configuration occurs](#342-when-configuration-occurs)
        3. [Ability to change post install](#343-ability-to-change-post-install)
4. [CAN external/site access (site DNS, LDAP, etc.)](#4-can-externalsite-access-site-dns-ldap-etc)
    1. [Traffic separation and routing](#41-traffic-separation-and-routing)
    2. [Changes](#42-changes)
        1. [Touchpoints: effects and changes](#421-touchpoints-effects-and-changes)
        2. [When configuration occurs](#422-when-configuration-occurs)
        3. [Ability to change post-install](#423-ability-to-change-post-install)

## 1 CAN new features overview

Bifurcation or splitting of the Customer Access Network (CAN) enables customization of customer traffic to and from the system.
Customization will be performed during installation.
For CSM 1.2 there are two new customer access networks being introduced as part of the process to split the existing monolithic CAN:

1. **High Speed CAN - CHN (Customer High Speed Network)** : This feature adds the ability to connect to User Application Nodes (UAN), UAI, Compute Nodes
and Kubernetes API endpoints from the customer site via the High Speed Network (HSN).

> 2. **Management CAN - CMN (Customer Management Network)** :  Using a new VLAN on the Management Network, this feature allows system administrative access from the customer site.

Reviewer 2: IMO, the abbreviation `CAN` is being used in this PR as both a type of network as well as an instance of a network -- and this is confusing (at least to me :)). This causes the following issues:

1. CHN is called out but not the new CAN, which is an alternative to CHN. From a reader's perspective, the "High Speed CAN - CHN" either only calls out CHN only, or it bundles together new CAN and CHN but erroneously calls new CAN "high speed". We don't have to refer to CHN as "High Speed CAN - CHN", instead can simply refer to its full form "Customer High-speed Network (CHN)". This would allow us to also mention the "new 1.2 CAN". Please see an example of this verbiage at the end of this comment.

2. Same goes for not using "Management CAN - CMN" and instead just using "Customer Management Network (CMN)". It would reduce the amount of technical terms and help us differentiate between pre-1.2 CAN and new CMN.

3. Also, I don't think CMN is "using a new VLAN on the Management Network" ... I thought CMN VLAN is the same pre-1.2 CAN VLAN, and CHN/new-CAN are new VLANs?

------

I am attaching a summary of BICAN here that I used for the upgrade process that highlights what was there pre-1.2 and what exact networks will be introduced as part of the 1.2 upgrade:

```
Prior to CSM 1.2, the single Customer Access Network (CAN) carried both the admin network traffic and the user network traffic. CSM 1.2 introduces bifurcated CAN (BICAN), which is designed to separate admin network traffic and user network traffic.

With BICAN, the pre-1.2 CAN network is split into two separate networks:

1. Customer Management Network (CMN)

   This network allows only system administrative access from the customer site. The pre-1.2 CAN is renamed to CMN. <rest of docs pertaining to upgrade snipped>

1. Customer Access Network (CAN) / Customer High-speed Network (CHN)

   For user traffic only (e.g. users running and monitoring jobs), CSM 1.2 allows you to pick one of two networks:

      - Customer Access Network (CAN): this is a new network (VLAN6 in switches) that runs over the management network. This
         network must not be confused with pre-1.2 CAN, which was a monolithic network that allowed both user and administrative
         traffic, was configured as VLAN7 in switches, and is now renamed to CMN. The new CAN allows only user traffic.

      - Customer High-speed Network (CHN): this is a new network (VLAN5 in switches) that runs over the high-speed fabric.

   You must only pick either the new CAN or CHN, but not both. The rest of the installation guide will provide you with options for configuring either the new CAN or CHN.

Pivoting the pre-1.2 CAN to the new CMN allows administrative traffic (already on the pre-1.2 CAN) to remain as-is while moving standard user traffic to a new site-routable network.
```

Reviewer 2: Since this is my IMO, please feel free to resolve this comment without any action :)

Reviewer 2: 1. Looks good 
2. Can you please make the similar change in bican_technical_details.md? It still says "High Speed CAN - CHN" etc.
3. See point (3) in original comment about CMN not being a "new VLAN". If it is, in fact a new VLAN, please ignore this comment.

Author: i think i have item #2 sorted.  please have a look and let me know if i missed any spots.

## 2 High Speed CAN (CHN)

Access to system resources from the customer site over the High Speed Network is provided by the High Speed CAN (CHN).
As can be seen in the diagram above, traffic ingress from the site for the CHN is over the edge routers.
Typically these are a pair of Arista switches which provide other HSN access -- for ClusterStor, for example.

NOTE: Arista routing configurations as a virtual routing instance are in scope for CSM 1.2 CHN work.
Other edge routers, including Juniper, are out of scope.

### 2.1 CHN system ingress endpoints accessible in CSM 1.2

- Designated Application Nodes, particularly **UAN, over SSH**.
- Designated **Compute Nodes (CN)**, including those used for Compute as UAN, **over SSH**.
- Kubernetes **API endpoints over https**.

### 2.2 CHN system egress endpoints accessible in CSM 1.2

- System access to **site external resources** , including LDAP and DNS servers.

### 2.3 Endpoint Naming

A `.chn` DNS suffix will be used for all endpoints accessed over the High Speed CAN.
Endpoints naming will be resolved and maintained in the system authoritative DNS (another CSM 1.2 feature).

> As part of the introduction of authoritative DNS endpoints, endpoints will also have a top-level-domain appended, creating a fully-qualified domain system.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As part of the introduction of authoritative DNS endpoints, endpoints will also have a top-level-domain appended, creating a fully qualified domain system.
```

- `nid000001.chn.tld`
- `api-gateway-service.chn.tld`

Where `tld` is configurable at installation and can be a subdomain of the site domain system.
Exchange of system DNS with the site may be via delegation (preferred) or zone transfer (AXFR).

Once added to CSI, names and IP addresses will use the standard CSM data flow, end up in SLS, and be available for use via both DNS and DHCP services.

#### 2.3.1 Touchpoints: effects and changes

- Will require installation and administration document changes.
- The CHN requires a small change in CSI to add this network.
- Will automatically use the DNS infrastructure from previous CSM install.
- Name aliases can be added, changed, and removed via the API to SLS and become available in DNS automatically.
DNS tooling for this was released in Shasta v1.4 with [SLS](../../index.md#system-layout-service-sls)

#### 2.3.2 When naming occurs

- Installation as part of Cray Site Initialization (CSI) data.
- During site customizations.

#### 2.3.3 Ability to change post-install

- Yes - Add, remove, and change aliases.
- No - Change FQDN and domain suffixes.

### 2.4 Endpoint addressing

> For the CSM 1.2 release, CHN endpoints will have **IPv4 addressing only** , with IPv6 introduction in a future release.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For the CSM 1.2 release, CHN endpoints will have **IPv4 addressing only**, with IPv6 introduction in a future release.
```

The current limitation to system introduction of IPv6 is Kubernetes Weave, as well as a vast amount of system configuration
and testing required to certify IPv6 system-wide.

The CHN will by default have a private IPv4 address block.
This is intended to be changed during installation to a **customer-supplied IPv4 address block**.

#### 2.4.1 Touchpoints: effects and changes

- Installer and documentation changes to support new network and path as part of configuration.
- CSI for network generation and initial configuration.
- NCN images to support additional **subnets and routing.**

> - CFS images for CN and UAN **addressing and routing.**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- CFS configurations for CN and UAN **addressing and routing.**
```

- UAI to support changes to **addressing and routing.**

> - MetalLB to create new API endpoints and peer with Edge Router.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- MetalLB to create new API endpoints and peer with edge router.
```

- Arista switch pair to create new or add to existing virtual routing instance for path and access control.

> - HSN required for transport of application traffic so new procedures need to be developed for troubleshooting and support.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- HSN required for transport of application traffic, so new procedures need to be developed for troubleshooting and support.
```

#### 2.4.2 When addressing occurs

> - Installation as part of CSI data.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Installation, as part of CSI data.
```

#### 2.4.3 Ability to change post-install

> - NO - There are dozens of touchpoints throughout the system.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- No
```

> ### 2.5 Traffic Separation and Routing

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### 2.5 Traffic separation and routing
```

> In CSM 1.2, there will be Layer 3 separation internal to the system but co-mingled Layer 2 between the CHN IPv4 addressing and the internal HSN private IPv4 addresses.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In CSM 1.2, there is Layer 3 separation internal to the system but co-mingled Layer 2 between the CHN IPv4 addressing and the internal HSN private IPv4 addresses.
```

> Isolation will be within the Slingshot network as well as separated at the Edge Router.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Isolation will be within the Slingshot network as well as separated at the edge router.
```

#### 2.5.1 Touchpoints: effects and changes

> - Edge Router provides all **routing and access controls** in CSM 1.2 (via a virtual routing instance if Arista switch pair is used).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Edge router provides all **routing and access controls** in CSM 1.2 (via a virtual routing instance, if Arista switch pair is used).
```

> As noted above, non-Arista router configurations are out of scope for CSM 1.2 work.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As noted earlier, non-Arista router configurations are out of scope for CSM 1.2.
```

> - Internal to the system CHN traffic will exist in the same Layer 2 domain with internal HSN traffic until the Slingshot network supports VLAN separation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Internal to the system, CHN traffic will exist in the same Layer 2 domain with internal HSN traffic until the Slingshot network supports VLAN separation.
```

> - Compute (CN) and Application Node (UAN in this case) configuration or IPv4 addressing and routing will be via CFS.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Compute Node (CN) and Application Node (UAN, in this case) configuration or IPv4 addressing and routing is via CFS.
```

>   - When multiple HSN interfaces exists the CHN can be configured to load balance TCP/UDP traffic &quot;flows&quot; across interfaces via ECMP Layer 3 routing in Linux.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - When multiple HSN interfaces exist, the CHN can be configured to load balance TCP/UDP traffic flows across interfaces via ECMP Layer 3 routing in Linux.
```

> - UAI addressing and routing over the HSN interfaces for the NCN workers is required.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- UAI addressing and routing over the HSN interfaces for the worker NCNs is required.
```

> - API endpoints in MetalLB for the CHN will be accessible over NCN worker HSN interfaces (via ECMP Layer 3 routing).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- API endpoints in MetalLB for the CHN will be accessible over worker NCN HSN interfaces (via ECMP Layer 3 routing).
```

>   - MetalLB will peer with the Edge Routers to supply load balanced API access.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - MetalLB will peer with the edge routers to supply load balanced API access.
```

#### 2.5.2 When configuration occurs

> - Installation as part of a virtual routing instance on the Edge Routers.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Installation, as part of a virtual routing instance on the edge routers.
```

> #### 2.5.3 Ability to change post install

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### 2.5.3 Ability to change post-install
```

> - NOT RECOMMENDED - Edge Router controls external access so change scope is limited.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Not Recommended - Edge router controls external access, so change scope is limited.
```

> - NO - Node images could be changed but routing and IP changes to CFS images would need extensive testing to certify.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- No - Node images could be changed, but routing and IP address changes to CFS configurations would need extensive testing to certify.
```

> ## 3 Management CAN(CMN)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## 3 Management CAN (CMN)
```

> The original CAN released in Shasta 1.1 contained the ability to access NCN workers, masters and storage directly via SSH for administrative purposes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The original CAN released in Shasta 1.1 contained the ability to access NCN workers, masters, and storage directly via SSH for administrative purposes.
```

This administrative traffic was co-mingled with general user traffic for jobs.

> Based on customer requests a new mechanism for administrative access to workers, masters and storage nodes will be added in CSM 1.2.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Based on customer requests, a new mechanism for administrative access to workers, masters, and storage nodes has been added in CSM 1.2.
```

> The new Customer Management Network (CMN) will be created as **a separate-and-distinct VLAN and Subnet on the Management Network** and uplink at the edge to the Customer network.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The new Customer Management Network (CMN) is created as **a separate and distinct VLAN and subnet on the Management Network**, and uplinks at the edge to the customer network.
```

This new CMN network will allow SSH into the NCNs and CAN access will be disallowed.
NOTE this is generally for ingress access for administrative purposes.

### 3.1 Traffic Separation and Routing

Enabling the CMN at installation time will have the following effects:

- Adding uplinks to the Customer Site similar to the original CAN.
- Creating of a new VLAN on the Management Network.
- Adding a new subnet and routing to the Management Network and NCNs.

### 3.2 Endpoint Naming

> If enabled during installation a ".CMN" suffix will be generated by CSI and used in SLS and Authoritative DNS.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If enabled during installation, a `.cmn` suffix will be generated by CSI and used in SLS and authoritative DNS.
```

The "plumbing" of this will occur as previously described in the CHN.

Examples:

- SSH `ncn-w001.cmn.tld`

> ### 3.3 Endpoint Addressing

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### 3.3 Endpoint addressing
```

> For the CSM 1.2 release the CMN will only be available via customer-supplied IPv4 addressing.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For the CSM 1.2 release, the CMN is only available via customer-supplied IPv4 addressing.
```

### 3.4 Changes

#### 3.4.1 Touchpoints: effects and changes

- CMN required beginning with this release.
  - Customer will supply a subnet similar to the way the CAN is deployed.

>   Sizing is Number of NCNs plus a couple more addresses (TBD).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  Sizing is the number of NCNs plus a couple more addresses (TBD).
```

>   Sizing is Number of NCNs plus a couple more addresses (TBD).

Reviewer 3: Do we want to leave TBD in the actual published document?

Author: removing TBD since that will always be the case since its a customer provided dataset.

- Edge access to the CMN will need to be configured with the customer site.

>   - ACL development.

Reviewer 3: Can this point be elaborated?

Author: added additional linking to guides to setup edge switches to metallb perring and bican configs for aristas

- The Management network will require the following changes:

>   - Addition of the new CMN VLAN.  This should be similar to the existing CAN configuration.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - Addition of the new CMN VLAN. This should be similar to the existing CAN configuration.
```

  - Termination of the new CMN VLAN on ports supporting NCNs.

>   - Addition of Customer-supplied CMN IP&#39;s to the management switches to support routing.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - Addition of customer-supplied CMN IP addresses to the management switches to support routing.
```

> - NCN workers, masters and storage will require the following changes:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- NCN workers, masters, and storage will require the following changes:
```

>   - Image support for CMN VLAN, addressing and routing.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - Image support for CMN VLAN, addressing, and routing.
```

> - CSI changes to support the new network and naming.

Reviewer 3: Does this mean changes to the CSI inputs a customer provides? If it's just changes we had to make to CSI internally, probably we don't need to mention it in the customer-facing docs.

#### 3.4.2 When configuration occurs

> - During installation as part of CSI data generation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- During installation, as part of CSI data generation.
```

> - During installation as part of Management Network configuration.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- During installation, as part of Management Network configuration.
```

> - During installation as part of NCN deployment.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- During installation, as part of NCN deployment.
```

> #### 3.4.3 Ability to change post install

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### 3.4.3 Ability to change post-install
```

> - NOT RECOMMENDED and would be manual.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Not recommended, and would be manual.
```

> ## 4 CAN External/Site Access (site DNS, LDAP, etc...)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## 4 CAN external/site access (site DNS, LDAP, etc.)
```

> System access to site or external resources, like the Internet, site DNS and site LDAP were previously provided over the CAN.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
System access to site or external resources (such as the Internet, site DNS servers, and site LDAP servers) was previously provided over the CAN.
```

> By default this CAN access path will remain, but for the CSM 1.2 release it will be possible during installation to select system-to-site access over the CHN or CMN.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
By default this CAN access path remains, but for the CSM 1.2 release it is possible during installation to select system-to-site access over the CHN or CMN.
```

> ### 4.1 Traffic Separation and Routing

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### 4.1 Traffic separation and routing
```

> At installation time one of the following egress routes from the system to the site may be selected: CAN (default), CHN, CMN.

Reviewer 3: May be selected or must be selected?

Author: `must` sounds better.

### 4.2 Changes

#### 4.2.1 Touchpoints: effects and changes

> - Installer customizations changes:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Installer customization changes:
```

  - Management Network changes possibly for routing, but new ACLs may be necessary.
  - NCNs will require specific site routes to prioritize selected path over the system default (CAN).
- Dependent on CHN and CMN work.

#### 4.2.2 When configuration occurs

> - During installation as part of site configuration.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- During installation, as part of site configuration.
```

# Bifurcating the CAN - CSM 1.2 Feature Details

> 1. [CAN New Features Overview](#1-can-new-features-overview)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. [CAN new features overview](#1-can-new-features-overview)
```

2. [High Speed CAN (CHN)](#2-high-speed-can-chn)
    1. [CHN system ingress endpoints accessible in CSM 1.2](#21-chn-system-ingress-endpoints-accessible-in-CSM-12)
    2. [CHN system egress endpoints accessible in CSM 1.2](#22-chn-system-egress-endpoints-accessible-in-CSM-12)
    3. [Endpoint Naming](#23-endpoint-naming)
        1. [Touchpoints: effects and changes](#231-touchpoints-effects-and-changes)
        2. [When naming occurs](#232-when-naming-occurs)
        3. [Ability to change post-install](#233-ability-to-change-post-install)

>     4. [Endpoint Addressing](#24-endpoint-addressing)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    4. [Endpoint addressing](#24-endpoint-addressing)
```

        1. [Touchpoints: effects and changes](#241-touchpoints-effects-and-changes)
        2. [When addressing occurs](#242-when-addressing-occurs)
        3. [Ability to change post-install](#243-ability-to-change-post-install)

>     5. [Traffic Separation and Routing](#25-traffic-separation-and-routing)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    5. [Traffic separation and routing](#25-traffic-separation-and-routing)
```

        1. [Touchpoints: effects and changes](#251-touchpoints-effects-and-changes)
        2. [When configuration occurs](#252-when-configuration-occurs)

>         3. [Ability to change post install](#253-ability-to-change-post-install)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        3. [Ability to change post-install](#253-ability-to-change-post-install)
```

> 3. [Management CAN(CMN)](#3-management-cancmn)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. [Management CAN (CMN)](#3-management-cancmn)
```

>     1. [Traffic Separation and Routing](#31-traffic-separation-and-routing)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    1. [Traffic separation and routing](#31-traffic-separation-and-routing)
```

>     2. [Endpoint Naming](#32-endpoint-naming)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    2. [Endpoint naming](#32-endpoint-naming)
```

>     3. [Endpoint Addressing](#33-endpoint-addressing)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    3. [Endpoint addressing](#33-endpoint-addressing)
```

    4. [Changes](#34-changes)
        1. [Touchpoints: effects and changes](#341-touchpoints-effects-and-changes)
        2. [When configuration occurs](#342-when-configuration-occurs)
        3. [Ability to change post install](#343-ability-to-change-post-install)

> 4. [CAN External/Site Access (site DNS, LDAP, etc...)](#4-can-externalsite-access-site-dns-ldap-etc)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
4. [CAN external/site access (site DNS, LDAP, etc.)](#4-can-externalsite-access-site-dns-ldap-etc)
```

>     1. [Traffic Separation and Routing](#41-traffic-separation-and-routing)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    1. [Traffic separation and routing](#41-traffic-separation-and-routing)
```

    2. [Changes](#42-changes)
        1. [Touchpoints: effects and changes](#421-touchpoints-effects-and-changes)
        2. [When configuration occurs](#422-when-configuration-occurs)

>         3. [Ability to change post install](#423-ability-to-change-post-install)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        3. [Ability to change post-install](#423-ability-to-change-post-install)
```

> ## 1 CAN New Features Overview

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## 1 CAN new features overview
```

Bifurcation or splitting of the Customer Access Network (CAN) enables customization of customer traffic to and from the system.
Customization will be performed during installation.
For CSM 1.2 there are two new customer access networks being introduced as part of the process to split the existing monolithic CAN:

> 1. **High Speed CAN - CHN(Customer High Speed Network)** : This feature adds the ability to connect to Application Nodes (UAN), UAI, Compute Nodes

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. **High Speed CAN - CHN (Customer High Speed Network)** : This feature adds the ability to connect to User Application Nodes (UAN), UAI, Compute Nodes
```

and Kubernetes API endpoints from the customer site via the High Speed Network (HSN).

> 2. **Management CAN - CMN(Customer Management Network)** :  Using a new VLAN on the Management Network, this feature allows system administrative access from the customer site.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. **Management CAN - CMN (Customer Management Network)** :  Using a new VLAN on the Management Network, this feature allows system administrative access from the customer site.
```

> Administrative access was previously available on the original CAN and this feature provides a traffic path and access split.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Administrative access was previously available on the original CAN; this feature provides a traffic path and access split.
```

Enabling BICAN will remove the original CAN.

> **During installation the opportunity to enable the new features will be presented.**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**During installation, the opportunity to enable the new features will be presented.**
```

At this time, the customers must accept:

> - External management to admin endpoints moves to the Customer Management Network (CMN).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- External administrator access to administrative endpoints moves to the Customer Management Network (CMN).
```

- External user access to user endpoints moves to the Customer High-speed Network (CHN).
- The CHN is now the default ingress network.
- Customer access over the legacy CAN is disabled by default.

> ### Reverting or changing any decisions will be manual

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Reverting or changing any decisions will be manual.
```

> The feature matrix of the CAN is described [here](bican_support_matrix.md).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For the feature matrix of the CAN, see [BICAN Support Matrix](bican_support_matrix.md).
```

Details of the High Speed CAN (CHN) and the Management CAN (CMN) are described below.

![Customer Access Overview](img/customer_access_overview.png)

## 2 High Speed CAN (CHN)

Access to system resources from the customer site over the High Speed Network is provided by the High Speed CAN (CHN).

> As can be seen in the diagram above, traffic ingress from the site for the CHN is over the Edge Routers

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As can be seen in the diagram above, traffic ingress from the site for the CHN is over the edge routers.
```

> (typically a pair of Arista Switches which provide other HSN access - for ClusterStor for instance).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Typically these are a pair of Arista switches which provide other HSN access -- for ClusterStor, for example.
```

> NOTE:  Arista routing configurations as a virtual routing instance are in-scope for CSM 1.2 CHN work.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
NOTE: Arista routing configurations as a virtual routing instance are in scope for CSM 1.2 CHN work.
```

> Other Edge Routers, including Juniper are out of scope.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Other edge routers, including Juniper, are out of scope.
```

### 2.1 CHN system ingress endpoints accessible in CSM 1.2

- Designated Application Nodes, particularly **UAN, over SSH**.
- Designated **Compute Nodes (CN)**, including those used for Compute as UAN, **over SSH**.
- Kubernetes **API endpoints over https**.

### 2.2 CHN system egress endpoints accessible in CSM 1.2

> - System access to **site external resources** , including LDAP(s) and DNS.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- System access to **site external resources** , including LDAP and DNS servers.
```

### 2.3 Endpoint Naming

> A ".CHN" DNS suffix will be used for all endpoints accessed over the High Speed CAN.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A `.chn` DNS suffix will be used for all endpoints accessed over the High Speed CAN.
```

> Endpoints naming will be resolved and maintained in the system Authoritative DNS (another CSM 1.2 feature).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Endpoints naming will be resolved and maintained in the system authoritative DNS (another CSM 1.2 feature).
```

> As part of the introduction of authoritative DNS endpoints will also have a top-level-domain appended, creating a fully qualified domain system.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As part of the introduction of authoritative DNS endpoints, endpoints will also have a top-level-domain appended, creating a fully-qualified domain system.
```

Examples:

- `uan01.chn.tld` as resolved externally.
- `uan01.chn` can be resolved internal to the system (maintained via local `resolv.conf`).
- `nid000001.chn.tld`
- `api-gateway-service.chn.tld`

Where `tld` is configurable at installation and can be a subdomain of the site domain system.
Exchange of system DNS with the site may be via delegation (preferred) or zone transfer (AXFR).

> Once added to CSI, names and IP's will use the standard CSM data flow and end up in SLS and be available for use via both DNS and DHCP services.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Once added to CSI, names and IP addresses will use the standard CSM data flow, end up in SLS, and be available for use via both DNS and DHCP services.
```

#### 2.3.1 Touchpoints: effects and changes

- Will require installation and administration document changes.
- The CHN requires a small change in CSI to add this network.

> - Will (automatically) use the DNS infrastructure from previous CSM install.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Will automatically use the DNS infrastructure from previous CSM install.
```

> - Name aliases can be added/changed/removed via the API to SLS and become available in DNS automatically.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Name aliases can be added, changed, and removed via the API to SLS and become available in DNS automatically.
```

DNS tooling for this was released in Shasta v1.4 with [SLS](../../index.md#system-layout-service-sls)

#### 2.3.2 When naming occurs

- Installation as part of Cray Site Initialization (CSI) data.
- During site customizations.

#### 2.3.3 Ability to change post-install

> - YES - Add/Remove/Change Aliases

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Yes - Add, remove, and change aliases.
```

> - NO - Changing FQDN and domain suffixes because of the number of touchpoints.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- NO - Change FQDN and domain suffixes.
```

> Chiefly Kubernetes limitations introduced at install time and sheer number of touchpoints.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> ### 2.4 Endpoint Addressing

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### 2.4 Endpoint addressing
```

> For the CSM 1.2 release CHN endpoints will have **IPv4 addressing only** , with IPv6 introduction in a future release.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For the CSM 1.2 release, CHN endpoints will have **IPv4 addressing only** , with IPv6 introduction in a future release.
```

> The current limitation to system introduction of IPv6 is Kubernetes Weave as well as a vast amount of system configuration

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The current limitation to system introduction of IPv6 is Kubernetes Weave, as well as a vast amount of system configuration
```

and testing required to certify IPv6 system-wide.

> The CHN will, by default, have a private IPv4 address block.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The CHN will by default have a private IPv4 address block.
```

- During installation as part of CSI data generation.
- During installation as part of Management Network configuration.
- During installation as part of NCN deployment.

#### 3.4.3 Ability to change post install

- NOT RECOMMENDED and would be manual.

## 4 CAN External/Site Access (site DNS, LDAP, etc...)

System access to site or external resources, like the Internet, site DNS and site LDAP were previously provided over the CAN.
By default this CAN access path will remain, but for the CSM 1.2 release it will be possible during installation to select system-to-site access over the CHN or CMN.

### 4.1 Traffic Separation and Routing

At installation time one of the following egress routes from the system to the site may be selected: CAN (default), CHN, CMN.

### 4.2 Changes

#### 4.2.1 Touchpoints: effects and changes

- Installer customizations changes:
  - Management Network changes possibly for routing, but new ACLs may be necessary.
  - NCNs will require specific site routes to prioritize selected path over the system default (CAN).
- Dependent on CHN and CMN work.

#### 4.2.2 When configuration occurs

- During installation as part of site configuration.

> #### 4.2.3 Ability to change post install

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### 4.2.3 Ability to change post-install
```

The existing and original CAN will remain as-is. **During installation the opportunity to enable these new features will be presented.**   At this time customers may choose to:

1. **Add** High Speed CAN (CHN) access in addition to the existing CAN.
2. **Move** system access to site external resources (LDAP, DNS, etc...) from the CAN to either the CMN or CHN.
3. **Move** administrative traffic from the existing CAN to the Management CAN (CMN).

The feature matrix of the CAN is described [here](bican_support_matrix.md).  Details of the High Speed CAN (CHN) and the Management CAN (CMN) are described below.

![Customer Access Overview](img/customer_access_overview.png) 

<a name="high-speed-can-(chn)"></a>
# High Speed CAN (CHN)

Access to system resources from the customer site over the High Speed Network is provided by the High Speed CAN (CHN).  As can be seen in the diagram above, traffic ingress from the site for the CHN is over the Edge Routers (typically a pair of Arista Switches which provide other HSN access - for ClusterStor for instance).

> NOTE:  Arista routing configurations as a virtual routing instance are in-scope for CSM-1.2 CHN work.  Other Edge Routers, including Juniper are out of scope.

Author: removed `NOTE` section since it was not specify when additional support was happening.

<a name="touchpoints:-effects-and-changes"></a>
### Touchpoints: effects and changes

- Installer and documentation changes to support new network and pathing as part of configuration.
- CSI for network generation and initial configuration.
- NCN images to support additional **subnets and routing.**
- CFS images for CN and UAN **addressing and routing.**
- UAI to support changes to **addressing and routing.**
- MetalLB to create new API endpoints and peer with Edge Router.
- Arista switch pair to create new or add to existing virtual routing instance for pathing and access control.
- HSN required for transport of application traffic so new procedures need to be developed for troubleshooting and support.

<a name="when-addressing-occurs"></a>
### When addressing occurs

- Installation as part of CSI data.

<a name="ability-to-change-post-install"></a>
### Ability to change post-install

- NO - There are dozens of touchpoints throughout the system.

<a name="traffic-separation-and-routing"></a>
## Traffic Separation and Routing

> In CSM-1.2 the Slingshot HSN will likely not be able to support VLAN separation.  Thus there will be Layer 3 separation internal to the system but co-mingled Layer 2 between the CHN IPv4 addressing and the internal HSN private IPv4 addresses.  Isolation will be within the Slingshot network as well as separated at the Edge Router.

Reviewer: Slingshot supports VLANs as of Slingshot v1.7 (possibly 1.6 but I know it's in use on systems running 1.7)

<a name="traffic-separation-and-routing"></a>
## Traffic Separation and Routing

At installation time one of the following egress routes from the system to the site may be selected: CAN (default), CHN, CMN.

<a name="changes"></a>
## Changes

<a name="touchpoints:-effects-and-changes"></a>
### Touchpoints: effects and changes

- Installer customizations changes:
  - Management Network changes possibly for routing, but new ACLs may be necessary.
  - NCNs will require specific site routes to prioritize selected pathing over the system default (CAN).
- Dependent on CHN and CMN work.

<a name="when-configuration-occurs"></a>
### When configuration occurs

- During installation as part of site configuration.

<a name="ability-to-change-post-install"></a>
### Ability to change post install

- NO

<a name="work-towards-can-bifurcation-for-csm-1.2"></a>
# Work Towards CAN Bifurcation for CSM-1.2

Specific work and it&#39;s resultant ticketing Tier 2 and 3 ticketing towards bifurcating the CAN in CSM-1.2 is covered in [this document](////confluence/display/CASMNET/CASMNET+Shasta+v1.5+Planning), which also describes specific customer-sourced requirements.

<a name="risks"></a>

> ## Risks

Reviewer: Some of these points feel like internal documentation and should be removed.

This administrative traffic was co-mingled with general user traffic for jobs.
Based on customer requests a new mechanism for administrative access to workers, masters and storage nodes will be added in CSM 1.2.
The new Customer Management Network (CMN) will be created as **a separate-and-distinct VLAN and Subnet on the Management Network** and uplink at the edge to the Customer network.
This new CMN network will allow SSH into the NCNs and CAN access will be disallowed.
NOTE this is generally for ingress access for administrative purposes.

### 3.1 Traffic Separation and Routing

Enabling the CMN at installation time will have the following effects:

- Adding uplinks to the Customer Site similar to the original CAN.
- Creating of a new VLAN on the Management Network.
- Adding a new subnet and routing to the Management Network and NCNs.

### 3.2 Endpoint Naming

If enabled during installation a ".CMN" suffix will be generated by CSI and used in SLS and Authoritative DNS.
The "plumbing" of this will occur as previously described in the CHN.

Examples:

- SSH `ncn-w001.cmn.tld`

> <a name="3-3-endpoint-addressing"></a>

Reviewer 4: These anchors aren't necessary, please remove here and in other pages that have them added.

Author: try #2 to remove all anchor references

As part of the introduction of authoritative DNS endpoints will also have a top-level-domain appended, creating a fully qualified domain system.

Examples:

- `uan01.chn.tld` as resolved externally.
- `uan01.chn` can be resolved internal to the system (maintained via local `resolv.conf`).
- `nid000001.chn.tld`
- `api-gateway-service.chn.tld`

Where `tld` is configurable at installation and can be a subdomain of the site domain system.
Exchange of system DNS with the site may be via delegation (preferred) or zone transfer (AXFR).

Once added to CSI, names and IP's will use the standard CSM data flow and end up in SLS and be available for use via both DNS and DHCP services.

<a name="231-touchpoints:-effects-and-changes"></a>

#### 2.3.1 Touchpoints: effects and changes

- Will require installation and administration document changes.
- The CHN requires a small change in CSI to add this network.
- Will (automatically) use the DNS infrastructure from previous CSM install.
- Name aliases can be added/changed/removed via the API to SLS and become available in DNS automatically.
DNS tooling for this was released in Shasta v1.4 with [SLS](../../index.md#system-layout-service-sls)

> <a name="232-when-naming-occurs"></a>

Reviewer 4: Note that for main (since I assume this is getting a main backport) that all of these anchors refs are no longer.

I'd suggest using the actual headers in this PR to make the backport simpler.

Author: removed <a> anchor links and updated page links
